doc: mcuboot signing app with flpr payload (#19155)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/nrf54l/nrf54l_signing_with_payload.rst

For details, see :ref:`vpr_flpr_nrf54l`.

Users can dynamically load and modify the FLPR code during runtime.
This guide describes how to build the application and FLPR cores, creating a single file, signed and managed by MCUboot, with FLPR integrated and executable from the application slot.

Requirements and limitations
****************************

MCUboot requires the application and the FLPR application to be concatenated and signed together to treat them as a single image.
To do this, you have to build the main application (CPUAPP application) and the FLPR application separately, merge them, and sign them for MCUboot.

In addition to the requirements, there are also limitations caused by sysbuild.
The FLPR application cannot be built as part of the main sysbuild process.
Instead, the CPUAPP application can be built with MCUboot integration, while the FLPR must be built separately and then merged.
For details, see :ref:`building_nrf54l`.
Additionally, the DTS file for the CPUAPP application must allocate a specific reserved area for the FLPR binary.

Using Partition Manager
=======================

> Applications can only use static definitions from the :ref:`partition_manager`.

Author: rephrased a bit

For this reason, partitions defined for FLPR in DTS must also be reserved in the Partition Manager to ensure consistency.

Placement of the FLPR binary on storage devices is flexible, however, the loading mechanism must be aware of its starting point, which is specified in the DTS file.
Additionally, you must ensure that the FLPR partition in both the DTS and Partition Manager leaves sufficient space at the end for MCUboot swap information, which is necessary to update the application image.
The build system will not check if the compiled application satisfies the size requirements (see the NCSDK-20567 issue on the :ref:`known_issues` page).

Creating a project with FLPR core
*********************************

In the sysbuild framework, the CPUAPP application and the FLPR application are constructed as two distinct projects.
Each project can independently enable sysbuild.
The CPUAPP application, operating on the application core, requires the integration of MCUboot as the bootloader to ensure proper boot management and security.
The FLPR application operates independently from the main project structure, allowing it to be built separately.

> 

Reviewer: Yep, looks good to me

> 

Author: I tried to incorporate the answer from @de-nordic to a separate section preceding all configuration instructions. Also, moved back the note about partitioning to the original section, let me know if it should be removed instead

   .. code-block:: console

      python3 ${ZEPHYR_BASE}/scripts/build/mergehex.py <flpr_build>/zephyr/zephyr.hex build/<cpuapp_application>/zephyr/zephyr.hex -o app_and_flpr_merged.hex

   It results in creating the :file:`app_and_flpr_merged.hex` file that contains both the FLPR and CPUAPP application.

   .. note::

      In case you encounter any merging errors indicating that memory locations are defined in both files, it means that the DTS and Partition Manager partition definitions are not aligned, and the FLPR has been built in an area already occupied by the application. To resolve this issue, you must check and adjust the settings in either the Partition Manager, the DTS, or both.

Signing binaries
================

For MCUboot, the merged HEX file (:file:`app_and_flpr_merged.hex`) is a single application that must be signed.

1. Calculate the slot size, by using the ``mcuboot_primary_app`` configuration: 0xab800 + 0x800 = 0xac000, where 0xab800 represents the total size of the primary application area, 0x800 is added to accommodate the metadata required by MCUboot, resulting in a total ``slot_size`` of 0xac000.

> #. Sign the merged application by running the following scripts.

Reviewer: Link to imgtool docs

>    Make sure to replace ``<version>`` with the application version and ``<key>`` with the signature key.

Reviewer: Link to "how to set key" in bootloader docs

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF54L SoCs include a FLPR CPU designed to handle fast communication with external devices independently, enhancing flexibility in protocol implementation.
For details, see :ref:`vpr_flpr_nrf54l`.

Users can dynamically load and modify the FLPR code during runtime.
This guide describes how to build the application and FLPR cores, creating a single file, signed and managed by MCUboot, with FLPR integrated and executable from the application slot.

Requirements and limitations
****************************

MCUboot requires the application and the FLPR application to be concatenated and signed together to treat them as a single image.
To do this, you have to build the main application (CPUAPP application) and the FLPR application separately, manually merge them, and sign them for MCUboot.

In addition to the requirements, there are also limitations caused by sysbuild.
The FLPR application cannot be built as part of the main sysbuild process.
Instead, the CPUAPP application can be built with MCUboot integration, while the FLPR must be built separately and then merged.
For details, see :ref:`building_nrf54l`.

> Additionally, the DTS file for the CPUAPP application must allocate a specific reserved area for the FLPR binary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the DTS file for the CPUAPP application must allocate a specific reserved area for the FLPR binary.
```

Reviewer 2: Yeah, now I have noticed that I have written  "must specify specific specified area"

Using Partition Manager
=======================

For :ref:`partition_manager`, applications can only use static definitions.
In the current version of the |NCS|, the CPUAPP application and the FLPR application use different partitioning definitions.

> The CPUAPP application follows the Partition Manager's scheme, while its FLPR partitioning relies on DTS partitioning and disregards the Partition Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CPUAPP application follows the Partition Manager's scheme, while its FLPR relies on DTS partitioning and disregards the Partition Manager scheme.
```

> For this reason, partitions defined for FLPR in DTS must also be reserved in the Partition Manager to ensure consistency.
> Additionally, FLPR partitions in the FLPR application must align with FLPR partitions in the CPUAPP application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this reason, partitions defined for FLPR in DTS must also be reserved in the Partition Manager to ensure consistency, and FLPR partition parameters, like size and offset, must be aligned in DTS definition of in the FLPR application project and Partition Manager scheme of the CPUAPP project.
```

Placement of the FLPR binary on storage devices is flexible, however, the loading mechanism must be aware of its starting point, which is specified in the DTS file.

> Additionally, you must ensure that the FLPR partition in both the DTS and Partition Manager leaves sufficient space at the end for MCUboot swap information, which is necessary to update the application image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User must ensure that the FLPR partition in both the DTS and Partition Manager leaves sufficient space at the end for MCUboot swap information, which is necessary to update the application image.
```

Creating a single image
***********************

After the build is complete, you must manually collect the artifacts into a single image for MCUboot to work correctly.

Merging binaries
================

Before merging, ensure that the CPUAPP and FLPR applications have been built separately and using sysbuild.

1. Locate the :file:`zephyr.hex` files for both applications:

   * For CPUAPP, find the :file:`build/<cpuapp_application_dir_name>/zephyr/zephyr.hex` file.
   * For FLPR, find the :file:`<flpr_build>/zephyr/zephyr.hex` file.

#. If you do not have your environment set up, first source the :file:`zephyr_env.sh` script or ensure you have set the ``ZEPHYR_BASE`` environmental variable to the Zephyr directory used for building.

#. Execute the merge command, by running the following script:

   .. code-block:: console

      python3 ${ZEPHYR_BASE}/scripts/build/mergehex.py <flpr_build>/zephyr/zephyr.hex build/<cpuapp_application>/zephyr/zephyr.hex -o app_and_flpr_merged.hex

   It results in creating the :file:`app_and_flpr_merged.hex` file that contains both the FLPR and CPUAPP application.

   .. note::

>       In case you encounter any merging errors indicating that memory locations are defined in both files, it means that the DTS and Partition Manager partition definitions are not aligned, and the FLPR has been built in an area already occupied by the application. To resolve this issue, you must check and adjust the settings in either the Partition Manager, the DTS, or both.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Merging errors indicating that memory locations are defined in both hex files mean that the DTS and Partition Manager partition definitions, for FLPR and CPUAPP, are not properly aligned and the FLPR has been built to take an area already occupied by the application. To resolve this issue, you must check and adjust the settings in either the Partition Manager, the DTS, or both,  so that FLPR designated are does not overflow into application designated area.
```

Signing binaries
================

For MCUboot, the merged HEX file (:file:`app_and_flpr_merged.hex`) is a single application that must be signed.

> 1. Calculate the slot size, by using the ``mcuboot_primary_app`` configuration: 0xab800 + 0x800 = 0xac000, where 0xab800 represents the total size of the primary application area, 0x800 is added to accommodate the metadata required by MCUboot, resulting in a total ``slot_size`` of 0xac000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Calculate the slot size, by using the ``mcuboot_primary_app`` and replace `0xac000` in below command line with proper value; the 0xac000 below comes from following calculation: 0xab800 + 0x800 = 0xac000, where 0xab800 represents the total size of the primary application area, 0x800 is added to accommodate the metadata required by MCUboot, resulting in a total ``slot_size`` of 0xac000.
```
